[GeoMechanicsApplication] Add point heat flux (source) condition for heat (#12340)
KratosMultiphysics/Kratos: applications/GeoMechanicsApplication/tests/test_thermal_element/test_thermal_heat_flux_line_element/README.md

# Test Cases for Thermal Point Flux Condition

**Author:** [Mohamed Nabi](https://github.com/mnabideltares)

**Source files:** [Thermal line element with point flux condition](https://github.com/KratosMultiphysics/Kratos/tree/master/applications/GeoMechanicsApplication/tests/test_thermal_element/test_thermal_heat_flux_line_element)

## Case Specification

> In this thermal test case, a 1 m height soil column is considered, with everywhere set to 0 $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$. The top boundary condition is set to be 0 $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$. A heat flux of 100 $\mathrm{[W/m^2]}$ is set at the bottom boundary. The simulation spans 250 days to allow for a transition from an exponential to a linear temperature profile between the two sides. This test is conducted for various configurations, including 2D2N, 2D3N, 2D4N, 2D5N, 3D2N and 3D3N line elements. The temperature distribution along the depth is then evaluated with its own result.

Reviewer: I would make it a bit more clear the the everywhere set to 0 is the initial condition
```suggestion
In this thermal test case, a 1 m height soil column is considered, where the initial temperature in the entire domain is set to 0 $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$. The top boundary condition is set to be 0 $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$. A heat flux of 100 $\mathrm{[W/m^2]}$ is set at the bottom boundary. The simulation spans 250 days to allow for a transition from an exponential to a linear temperature profile between the two sides. This test is conducted for various configurations, including 2D2N, 2D3N, 2D4N, 2D5N, 3D2N and 3D3N line elements. The temperature distribution along the depth is then evaluated with its own result.
```

> In this thermal test case, a 1 m height soil column is considered, with everywhere set to 0 $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$. The top boundary condition is set to be 0 $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$. A heat flux of 100 $\mathrm{[W/m^2]}$ is set at the bottom boundary. The simulation spans 250 days to allow for a transition from an exponential to a linear temperature profile between the two sides. This test is conducted for various configurations, including 2D2N, 2D3N, 2D4N, 2D5N, 3D2N and 3D3N line elements. The temperature distribution along the depth is then evaluated with its own result.

Reviewer 2: I believe "height" should be "high".

> In this thermal test case, a 1 m height soil column is considered, where the initial temperature in the entire domain is set to 0 $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$. The top boundary condition is set to be 0 $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$. A heat flux of 100 $\mathrm{[W/m^2]}$ is set at the bottom boundary. The simulation spans 250 days to allow for a transition from an exponential to a linear temperature profile between the two sides. This test is conducted for various configurations, including 2D2N, 2D3N, 2D4N, 2D5N, 3D2N and 3D3N line elements. The temperature distribution along the depth is then evaluated with its own result.

Reviewer 3: I do not understand the remark: "from and exponential" 
the initial situation is a constant zero temperature field.

The boundary conditions are shown below:

<img src="../documentation_data/test_thermal_point_flux_condition.svg" alt="Visualization of the Boundary conditions" title="Visualization of the Boundary conditions" width="600">

## Results

> The picture below illustrates the temperature contours resulting from the simulation (as an example the 2D3N test is shown below).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The picture below illustrates the temperature distribution resulting from the simulation (as an example the 2D3N test is shown below).
```

<img src="../documentation_data/test_thermal_point_flux_condition_2D3N_result.png" alt="Temperature along the depth at the last time step" title="Temperature along the depth at the last time step" width="600">

These results are associated with the final time step after the solution reaches a steady state. The analytical solution is:

> $T = \frac{100}{1.1328} \left( 1 -y \right)$

Reviewer: To me the 1.1328 is a bit of a magic number, how does it relate to (probably?) material parameters?

Author: @rfaasse Thank you for review.
It comes from the material properties:

              "THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_SOLID_XX" :  1.50,
              "THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WATER" :  0.48,
              "POROSITY" :  0.36,
              "SATURATED_SATURATION" :  1.0,

Then in the heat equation, the dispersion is:
    $D = n S \lambda^w + (1-n) \lambda^s = 0.36 \times 1 \times 0.48 + (1-0.36) \times 1.5 = 1.1328$

> $T = \frac{100}{1.1328} \left( 1 -y \right)$

Reviewer 2: Would it be possible to briefly explain where this number (1.1328) comes from?

> In this test case, the result at node number 1 at location $y = 0 \mathrm{[m]}$ is compared with the analytical solution. The value of the temperature at node 1 is $\frac{100}{1.1328}$ $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$

Reviewer 2: Perhaps you can indicate in the figure that shows the model where this node is located (I assume it's at the bottom)?

# Test Cases for Thermal Point Flux Condition

**Author:** [Mohamed Nabi](https://github.com/mnabideltares)

**Source files:** [Thermal line element with point flux condition](https://github.com/KratosMultiphysics/Kratos/tree/master/applications/GeoMechanicsApplication/tests/test_thermal_element/test_thermal_heat_flux_line_element)

## Case Specification

> In this thermal test case, a 1 m high soil column is considered, where the initial temperature in the entire domain is set to 0 $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$. The top boundary condition is set to be 0 $\mathrm{[^\circ C]}$. A heat flux of 100 $\mathrm{[W/m^2]}$ is set at the bottom boundary. The simulation spans 250 days to allow for a transition from an exponential to a linear temperature profile between the two sides. This test is conducted for various configurations, including 2D2N, 2D3N, 2D4N, 2D5N, 3D2N and 3D3N line elements. The temperature distribution along the depth is then evaluated with its own result.

Reviewer 3: I do not understand the remark about exponential. It starts from a constant zero temperature field.
